Now let's move on to the next step of the process management.
What did we describe business processes for?
Probably, to understand what is wrong.
How can we understand what is wrong in our company and what should we do next?
In order to understand what is wrong, we need to analyze our business processes,
and then we need to find out what processes we should take care of first.
It is impossible to optimize everything at once.
Let's recall the Pareto principle.
80% of business processes will yield 80% of the result.
We start optimizing them first.
You may ask, how can we understand which business process should be optimized first?
Here is the algorithm.
First, we assess the importance of a business process.
Then we assess the problem of this business process.
And third, we assess the possibility of making changes in this business process.
Which processes will be optimized first?
The most important, the most problematic and the ones that are easiest to change.
Yes, there are very problematic and very important processes, but they cannot be changed.
For example, it is impossible to rearrange a chair that is not in a good condition.
It is impossible to melt a concrete chair.
Even if it is in a bad condition, it is impossible to do anything.
Only if you change the office.
And this will be very problematic, because now, for example,
it may be that you cannot find an office.
Therefore, once again, the most important, the most problematic and the ones that are easiest to change.
Now, let's talk about the points.
What is the importance of a business process and how to determine it?
The importance is how important this business process is when implementing a development strategy.
Let's remember about the BSC and QPI course.
Let's immediately refer to the company strategy, the company's strategic and accounting map and your department.
They will help you determine the importance of your business process.
What are the ways to determine the importance of a business process?
There are only four basic methods.
The first one is an expert assessment.
The second one is the development of the criteria of importance.
The third one is a simple comparison with the key factors of success.
And the fourth one is a weighting comparison with the key factors of success.
Let's look at all the methods in more detail.
So, the first method is an expert assessment.
What is it?
If we, let's say, don't know, can't develop the criteria of importance,
we just take a business process,
gather a group of experts, preferably the participants and the person responsible for this business process,
also the participants and the person responsible for the business process of the client of this process,
and the participants and the person responsible for the supplier of this process.
We give them a questionnaire and they fill it in.
Usually, they give the importance of this particular process by 5 or 10-point system.
Intuitively, by their own methods.
For example, if you assess the importance of the business process of the trade of clothes,
you can invite the head of the process,
the participants, the manager of the purchases, the production, the sales,
the representatives of the client,
the suppliers,
and you can invite several more employees of your company,
for example, from the finance department,
because they also participate in this business process,
and, accordingly, from the marketing department,
the head, who also participates in this business process at the time of sale,
and just ask them to put some point on this process of importance by 5 or 10-point system.
Then you just sum it up and take the average arithmetic,
and get the average importance of this particular business process.
If we talk about the method of expert assessment, it is very inaccurate.
But you can understand it yourself.
In fact, if you do not understand by what criteria one or another expert assessed the importance of the process,
then it is quite possible that one manager has his own opinions,
the second has his own, the third has his own.
Even if the strategy is known to everyone, there is still no single approach.
Therefore, this is the most unreliable, but at the same time the fastest way of assessment.
So to say, express.
Therefore, we usually recommend applying a slightly more complex, but a little more reliable method.
This is called the development of criteria.
You develop a kind of criteria for the importance of a particular business process.
That is, by what criteria you will determine whether this process is important or not.
Let's take the example of the same company Evrika,
which, as we remember, deals with tea, clothes and furniture.
In general, what does it do?
It belongs to a certain owner, who is also the general director.
Let's say the strategy can be reduced to a certain formulation.
I want to get maximum profit for as long as possible.
The simplest requirement.
Accordingly, we could call the criteria of importance, for example,
the share of turnover of each business process,
the trade of tea, clothes, furniture, in general, the turnover of the company.
Then the share of profit, the potential growth of each direction.
And some other strategic importance.
Some of the options, that is, there may be others.
Then we list these criteria, which we have developed ourselves,
and ask the experts, all the same experts,
to assess the importance of this particular business process
according to specific criteria.
But you must agree, the share of turnover cannot be invented,
because it either exists or does not exist.
Therefore, this indicator is taken based on the accountability.
The share of profit is the same.
The share of potential growth is a partially expert indicator,
but it can be based on past statistics.
For example, such a direction grew at an average rate of 5% per year,
such a rate is 10%, such a rate is 20%.
We can predict that they will grow approximately the same.
But there will also be a share of expert assessment.
And other strategic importance is, most likely, just an expert assessment.
In the corresponding slide, we can see that, for example,
for tea trading, the share of turnover was 10%,
the share of profit was 15%, the potential growth was 100%,
and the criteria for other strategic importance were 5%.
We did the same for clothing trade, the same for furniture trade.
And now what did we get?
We got that we have all the criteria in different conditional units,
something in percents, and something in points.
Now we bring it all to a single indicator.
That is, we bring all the percentages, all the points, all the conditions to the points.
How does it work?
For example, it is clear that we have a share of turnover of 60%,
one is 10%, the other is 30%.
If we convert this into a five-point scale,
then, accordingly, as an option,
clothing trade could get 3 points,
tea trading 1 point, furniture trade 2 points.
This is also visible in the corresponding slide.
Accordingly, if we sum up all the points in each direction
and divide them by the number of criteria,
then we get just this very index of importance.
For example, tea trading, which has 1 point in share of turnover,
1 point in share of profit, 3 points in potential growth,
and 5 points in other strategic importance,
in the end, we got 3 and 3 points in the index of importance.
And according to the table, we see that the most important process is clothing trade.
As for the following methods of comparison with the key factors of success,
what is KFU?
In fact, these are the goals that are reflected in your strategic map of the company.
These are the most important goals that you must achieve.
As far as we remember,
business processes are internal.
Therefore, we look at KFU in the perspective of finance and marketing.
The most important goals that are mentioned there are KFU.
Accordingly, we mention all these goals.
Do not take more than 7-8-10,
because if you take 20-30-40-50,
firstly, there will not be so many of them in the map,
and secondly, it is difficult for experts to assess business processes,
especially if there are more than 5-6 of them,
according to 10, 20, 30 criteria.
Therefore, choose 10 main ones.
The table is also inserted.
This is also visible on the corresponding slide,
where the table of the method of calculation of the index of importance is written.
Accordingly, we list the business processes that we describe
and the critical success factors.
These are the goals from the perspective of marketing and finance.
We also assess,
conditionally speaking,
by points,
how important the business process is,
according to each criterion.
For this, we use the same absolute experts.
Everything is the same.
The accuracy will be even greater here,
because there are even more criteria,
and they are directly related to the strategy
that absolutely everyone signed up for,
including the general director.
Therefore, this method is the most accurate.
If you want to clarify it even more,
please weigh these criteria.
How is it done?
If in the third method we just take all the KFU
and set the points,
how much this process takes for each KFU,
then in the fourth method we assign a certain weight to each KFU.
How important is the KFU itself?
In principle, the sum of all KFU must be, of course, one.
These are ordinary mathematical requirements.
Therefore, first we assign a weight to each KFU,
then we add this weight to our table,
and then we calculate the final index of importance of each process.
We multiply the weight of the KFU by the point,
which is assigned to this KFU for this process.
Again, the weight per point, the weight per point, and so on.
This is also visible in a specific slide,
this is a method of weighting processes with KFU.
Therefore, in the end, this is a very detailed, very clear
and as close as possible to the ideal
method of calculating the index of importance of a particular business process.
But you should understand that this takes much more time
than a simple expert assessment.
Because first, the experts need to agree on the weighting of these criteria,
then they need to agree on the points,
and then calculate the index of importance.
If you have a lot of experts, and everyone has their own vision
about the weight of the criteria, about what point should be assigned
to the process according to each criterion,
you will almost never find a compromise,
and this is the most difficult method from the point of view of implementation.
Therefore, here you need to choose the golden mean.
Sometimes, and most often, two or three methods are enough.
That is, either you develop the criteria of importance for yourself,
or, what is better, three methods,
when you just take specific goals from the perspective of marketing and finance
and score them for each business process.
No need for extra complexity, although if you want more accuracy, please.
Expert assessment is if you want to conduct an express analysis.
If you don't want to, if you want more accuracy,
then it is better to refuse this method.
So, we have assessed the importance of business processes.
Here, business processes are analyzed, as I said,
that is, scanned from the top level to the bottom.
That is, at the very first stage, we assess the importance of business processes of the top level.
Therefore, your assessment table will have 20, well, 20 plus or minus 5 business processes of the top level.
When you assess them, go to the next point,
this is the assessment of the problem of business processes for the organization.
What is the problem?
The problem is how different this particular business process is from the state as it should be.
We don't consider how important it is strategically,
how difficult it is to change it,
we just abstract from all other criteria.
We remove the importance, we remove the possibility of change,
just the problem, how it is, well, if you want, harmful,
how much it needs to be changed.
And the same four methods, expert assessment,
development of problem criteria, simple assessment of problems and weighted assessment of problems.
The same is true for expert assessment.
Absolutely the same experts, but only instead of a questionnaire for importance,
you give them a questionnaire for problems and explain what problem is.
Here it is even more complicated than with importance,
because for importance they can at least be guided by the company's strategy.
For problems, it is only their vision, how they see the process, how they would like it to work.
That is, it is even more inaccuracy, it is even less point of contact,
because it is difficult for every expert to ask what he meant by the state of the process as it should be.
Therefore, expert assessment here is very, very inaccurate, although very fast.
If we talk about the development of problem criteria,
then here is absolutely the same as with the criteria for importance.
Take some basic criteria, most often what criteria?
Financial, temporary, human difficulties, and so on.
For example, if we took the business process of the company Evrika,
well, for example, the same thing, tea trading,
we could take as one criterion, for example, the interaction between the participants of the process,
it is problematic, and unanimously it would be accepted as 5,
because the participants do not know at all who is doing what.
The second criterion, well, for example, could be information support of the process.
Is there, no, if there is, then how high-quality it is,
how it satisfies the requirements of this process.
Well, let's say 4, that is, there is, but it is very bad, and therefore an upgrade is required.
As for another criterion, well, let's say we take the transparency and controllability of the process.
Let's say, with this, well, the problem is on average, as in the company, well, 2.5-3 points.
That is, in general, not everything is clear, not everything is transparent,
but somehow it works, and in general, there are no strong problems there.
The same thing, in the corresponding table, we write all business processes,
all criteria and points that the process receives according to each criterion.
We add everything up, divide by the number of criteria and get the index of the problem.
Well, for example, as our company Evrica, let's look at the criteria of the problem that could be allocated.
For example, the share of the cost of the process from the total expenses of the company,
how much this process will be spent, then the share of failures in the implementation of the process,
how many complaints, how many complaints, how many negative reviews from other participants.
Further, the degree of fragmentation of the process, how many transitions from one employee to another during this business process.
And the satisfaction of the client with this process.
This is a non-nullifier, you can use more criteria, you can use other criteria, this is an option.
Accordingly, let's turn to the corresponding slide, an example of the results of calculating the index of the problem.
Let's say, in our tea trade, the cost is 10%, the failure rate is also 10%,
the fragmentation rate is 100%, it is a very fragmented business process,
the satisfaction of the client is 85%.
It is clear that the share of the cost is a fairly accurate indicator, the share of failures is also quite accurate.
The degree of fragmentation is a little less accurate, but nevertheless quite accurate.
The satisfaction of the client is partly an expert indicator, so nothing is based on experts here.
So, we evaluate all business processes, then we translate everything into points, as we remember, and calculate the index of the problem.
All points were summed up, divided into a number of criteria, and we got the result.
So, again, clothing trade is in the leaders.
The most problematic process.
This calculation is also seen on the corresponding slide.
How can you assess the problem of business processes?
You can give a certain note to the experts you will use to assess the problem.
For example, if you use a 5-point system, then you can write a note to them,
what does 1 mean, what does 2 mean, what does 3 mean, what does 4 mean, what does 5 mean.
If in the event of an important problem, it is clear that 1 is the least important,
the 5-point process is very important, then in the event of a problem, 1 point is all great,
and in the event of 5 points, everything is bad.
The example of how you could write it, for example, depends on you, on your creativity,
on how much it is required by the experts you will work with.
For example, you can also look at the corresponding slide if you want.
Therefore, if we move on to other methods, 3 and 4, then, accordingly,
this is absolutely the same as in the case of importance.
The only thing, as I will repeat again, we cannot use strategy,
because we do not assess the problem on the basis of a strategic map,
not on the basis of a calculation map, not on the basis of a strategy.
We must use some criteria for identifying the problems of processes.
In order to determine specific problems of processes,
many, many possible methods are used.
Special graphs of connections, special diagrams,
special methods of identifying the causes of the investigation,
the problems of the company.
In fact, this can be seen using a flip chart.
As I said, the causes and consequences of the problems are very difficult to understand,
especially if you do it intuitively, without preliminary preparation.
Therefore, when we assess the problem of the process,
and when we do not have a strategy to rely on,
we must identify all the problems that are associated with this particular process to the maximum.
Then we assess the criteria, assess the specific points,
and already see what problem this process is dealing with.
For example, we take a specific diagram of the ICKV,
one of the options for assessing the causes and consequences of the connection for a specific business process.
For example, this is a business process called the purchase.
Here is the main problem.
It was identified by all the experts at once, that it is long, long-lasting,
that all the materials are ordered for too long,
that all the possible goods, services, and so on are ordered for too long.
It all happens for too long.
It would be better to do it faster.
It is difficult to name all the causes of why this is happening at once
and to deduce the rest of the problems of this particular process.
It is very difficult without preparation.
Therefore, in order to identify them, a so-called brainstorming is arranged.
All the experts we have already identified,
they determine and help to establish the main problems
that are the reason for this main problem.
All the participants and experts discuss what could cause this problem,
and then, as a result, real problems appear on the diagram,
which really have a place to be.
For example, in this particular business process, there are problems with automation,
there are serious difficulties with the qualification of the staff,
there are problems with the relationship with suppliers, there are other problems.
When we identify these problems, we imagine them as a so-called Christmas tree
or a fish skeleton, so to speak.
Therefore, this is the second name of this program.
When we write all the possible problems, we put the connecting lines,
and this means that they are the reasons for the appearance
of this main problem.
Accordingly, there are other options of diagrams.
Use the one you like the most, the one that is most understandable to you.
You don't have to use such arrows, you can put connections between different problems,
just throw a few problems that come to mind in this process at once.
From them, put the arrows, why they arise.
This will help you to identify new problems.
You don't have to go too deep, you don't have to spend more time on it than you need,
but nevertheless, using the example of the purchase process,
you can immediately identify one subtlety,
and now all the experts, having gathered together,
were able to identify additional difficulties, additional problems.
There may be more of them, there may be much more, but these will be the main ones.
And all these problems will be listed in a special table.
This is called mapping problems and dependencies.
You write all the possible problems in the picture, horizontally and vertically,
and you put how they are connected to each other,
how they affect each other.
The most basic, the most influential on the overall big problem of complexity,
they will be the criteria for assessing the complexity of the whole process.
For example, we see that in general, this is not such a significant problem,
this is more significant, this is generally the problem number one, as it turned out.
Therefore, we can arrange all the identified problems,
and only the most basic of them should be left,
and it is on them that we assess the complexity of the process.
When you assess all these problems,
when you weigh which of them are the most basic,
the most significant for the development of the business process,
we can imagine it as a table.
The business process, next to it will be specific problems,
the most important ones that we have identified here.
And then the index of the complexity.
The index of the complexity can be the number of problems that have come to this business process.
This will be the third method.
That is, the more problems we have identified, the more complex they will be.
For example, for our purchase business process,
for which we identified the problem of duration,
the main problem now is the interaction with suppliers.
This means that opposite this process, we will write the problem of duration and interaction with suppliers,
and the index of the complexity will be two.
And if this problem or this one were also relevant,
we would also put them, put the index four.
And then we will say, well, they are all different,
still, by force they are different, no need to divide all the problems into only important and not important.
Less important and more important.
Absolutely right, but this is already the fourth method,
when we assign force to each problem, so-called.
That is, this is an analog of weight for the criterion of importance.
And we assign force to each problem on a scale from one to five,
and then we make an index of the complexity.
Well, for example, here we have the duration of the process,
it will have a force of five, because this is generally a big problem,
its weight will be, well, let's say, 0.5.
Here, in this problem, the force will be, let's say, four,
the weight is 0.4.
Well, let's say, this one has a weight of 0.1 and a force of 2.
5 to 0.5, 4 to 0.4, 0.1 to 1.
And putting it all together, we get the index of the complexity of the business process of the purchase.
As in the case of the method of assessing importance,
the fourth way of assessing the complexity is laborious.
You, again, all experts need to agree on what problems are the most important,
what problems are the strongest, the most serious.
To determine them by a list, by force, by weight,
and only then calculate the index of the complexity.
This is a very laborious process, although it is more reliable than all the others,
but before you start this method, think about whether you need to make so much effort,
if for some business processes the problems are already, in principle, clear,
they do not need to be reaffirmed again.
If you want to learn more about this fourth method,
you can refer to the corresponding slide, where the example of the index of the complexity of processes,
the interaction of weight and force, and the final calculation for this index are written.
How else can you assess how important,
how problematic this particular business process is?
For this, you can use not only your brainstorming,
which will help you draw a similar diagram,
but you can also use the help of a computer,
and use such a tool as benchmarking.
Here you assess only your inner vision of your problems,
but an absolutely similar scheme can be developed taking into account your competitors.
For example, what is benchmarking?
This is a comparison of a particular business process
with a so-called benchmark.
As a benchmark, the business process of your competitor may be inferior.
For example, you are a construction company,
and the business process of your closest competitor is of another construction company.
This can be an internal benchmarking,
that is, you compare this business process
with the benchmarking process inside your company.
If you imagine it all schematically,
it will be a kind of a few rings.
The main thing you should start with
is the internal benchmarking.
You should first look at the best practice of your company.
Maybe your employees already know
how to deal with such problems better,
what processes should be ideally in terms of duration,
cost, etc.
For example, if we take the company Evrica,
which has a business process of tea, clothing and furniture trading,
we can easily determine how much it costs to buy tea, furniture and clothes.
Of course, the cost and time will be different,
but nevertheless, the best experience should be taken from one process to another.
This is internal benchmarking.
If we do not find a good experience in our company,
we move on to competitive benchmarking.
How do the closest competitors do it?
It is clear that you will not come to a competing company and ask how you do it.
There is an inside, there is a study of the experience of competitors
based on the media, forums, the Internet, etc.
If there is no good experience there for one reason or another,
you can ask the representatives of the similar industry.
Maybe it's not a construction company,
but a development company that develops real estate.
This is not a close competitor, but from the same field.
For example, real estate development.
If there are no good benchmarks,
how should your business process look like?
You should do a general benchmarking
and see how all the companies you know,
have heard and can contact, how they do it.
Why do you need to study this benchmark?
In order to understand how ideally this process is done
and how it works for you.
And in order to understand how problematic it is for you,
you need to compare it with the benchmark of your industry.
When you find this ideal,
you compare it with what you have.
You will use this scheme,
you will determine the reasons why you should not have this ideal.
Only after that you will be able to make such a scheme
and based on this scheme you can determine the problem of your business process.
If we talk about specific types of benchmarking,
which you can use to determine how ideal your business process should be,
the one you evaluate,
here you can use all types of benchmarking.
Internal, competitive, functional, i.e. industry and general benchmarking.
But remember one thing,
that most often, according to experience,
it is very difficult to find a perfect benchmark.
For example, when we worked with one construction company,
the problems that were associated with construction
and the operation of objects were in all parameters.
That is, the main business areas were
shopping centers and business centers,
that is, office centers.
And there was the study of the object,
the construction of the object and the submission to operation.
Then the same company operated this object,
that is, it was a lender.
We analyzed the business process for shopping centers.
Of course, we immediately went to look at the company's experience
in the field of office centers and came to the conclusion that there were the same problems.
But it is not so that one department is good at everything,
and the other department is not good at anything.
Most often, the departments exchange experience.
And most often, everything is at the same level.
Something interesting can be found in other departments,
but usually the experience is the same.
Therefore, it is better to focus on competitors,
on the experience of the company from your industry and on the world experience in this area.
We also recommended this particular construction and development company.
We looked at the experience of other developers,
we looked at the experience of construction companies that did not deal with further operation of objects.
We looked at the world experience in terms of problems in trading,
for example, in the submission of office premises, and so on.
And only then it was possible to identify the problems
and to deal with the operation of these premises
so that the maximum number of premises was submitted at minimum marketing costs, and so on.
If we talk about the problem,
then everything is clear here.
This is, again, an expert assessment.
Either we choose specific criteria,
or we are looking for problems that separate our process from the standard,
or we are looking for problems that are on the way to the ideal.
And by the number of problems, by their strength and weight,
in some cases, we assess how problematic the business process is.
So, we assessed the importance of processes,
we assessed the problematicness of processes,
yes, it was more difficult.
Now there is one last third step left,
and that is to determine the capacity of the process.
That is, how many resources are needed to change this process.
That is, to transfer the state as it is,
that is, to bring it closer to the standard.
How can this be done?
Based on the experience of assessing the problematicness of the business process,
we can know what kind of business process we have now
and what problems we have.
And now, when we assess the resource capacity,
we must understand how much it will cost us to solve all these problems.
How much it costs, I'm not just talking about money.
It's time, it's money, it's some kind of moral and psychological difficulties,
it can be absolutely anything.
But most often, financial problems,
psychological problems, although this is an inextricable principle.
And here, most often, only two methods are used.
The first is an expert assessment, and the second is the development of the criteria for the resource capacity.
Let's take a closer look at them.
So, let's say we have the same purchase process
that we assessed on the flip chart.
It is clear that we have highlighted that it has many problems.
We have highlighted two main ones, the duration and the problems in relation to the suppliers.
Now we need to assess how much it costs us to solve them.
Let's say we invited several experts.
These are the experts of this process, managers,
the head of the procurement department, the supplier,
the client of this process,
that is, for example, the representative of the production department.
The experts should assess what resources are needed
to change this particular process,
and assess in points how much resources are needed to change something.
Again, we use the five-point scale.
If the experts think that everything is necessary to change the suppliers,
to introduce a new IT system,
to change the interaction with the suppliers,
to fill the procurement process,
then, of course, the resource capacity is 5.
Let's say one of the experts thinks that everything is not so bad,
that the procurement process can be changed a little,
let's say, he will put 3.
Someone else decided that everything is bad, but not too bad, so he put 4.
The more points, the more resources are needed to change the process.
We divide the assessment into the number of experts and get something in the middle.
How many points does this resource capacity of this process take?
Again, this is not accurate, as any expert assessment.
Therefore, we recommend using the development of the criteria for the resource capacity.
As I said, the main criteria are cost, time, and resistance, psychological factor.
Usually, they are the same,
that is, time, money, people, and the process.
This is all standard for all companies.
You just have to calculate approximately,
how much money,
how much time you need to get from the state as it is to the ideal,
and how much people will resist these changes.
The second, the first, that is, cost and time can be approximately predicted.
Not necessarily accurate, but at least approximately, to evaluate in points.
But as for the resistance, it is difficult to assess it all.
To do this, you can use questionnaires, surveyors,
invite a psychologist to the organization in order to conduct an interview
with those employees who will be affected by this change,
and assess the strength of resistance.
Therefore, when we talk about all the costs,
which will be associated with the change of this particular business process,
always highlight the disposable costs,
that is, once you need to finance, for example, the purchase of an ERP system,
or once you need to attract a psychologist,
or once you need to raise the salary,
well, some bonus, for example, you will not raise the salary, but you will give a bonus.
These are disposable costs.
Then there are those that will appear, will increase the current costs,
and will not end at one point, but will continue further.
For example, the attraction of new high-class specialists,
the salary will increase, or the introduction of an ERP system,
in addition to disposable costs, will bring with it support for the ERP system,
and additional money, and so on.
Therefore, at the stage of assessing the resource capacity,
you need to assess all the costs that will be associated with
the change of this particular business process.
Therefore, when we talk about finances and time,
it is all very accurate.
When we talk about the strength of resistance from the people,
yes, surveyors, some interviews, attraction of psychologists, and so on,
try to identify the main sources of resistance,
that is, the hidden and the most open ones,
those who are against this resistance,
understand why, for example, a person is against changes.
Maybe it can be motivated somehow,
maybe this resistance can be somehow reduced, lowered, or even leveled.
And in the end, when we determine all the resources
that we need to move from a state to another,
to a state as it should be,
we can imagine on a kind of graph,
where there will be a probability of these resistance and cost,
we can determine those resources
that are very likely to shoot out,
and which will cost the most,
let's say, the amount.
For example, we have determined that we will need to attract a psychologist,
we will need to conduct a lot of interviews with employees,
to fight psychological resistance.
We will need a lot of time to, for example,
to implement the ERP system, to find,
that is, it means attending seminars with our employees,
and we will need additional money and time for this.
This means that our employees, instead of doing their normal work,
will have to pay additional salary.
If we talk about financial costs,
then we add the cost of the ERP system,
the cost of its maintenance, the cost of installation, and so on.
From all these resources, we determine those that are most likely to happen.
That is, maybe our resistance
is not as strong as we expected,
and we will have to hire special psychologists,
conduct special investigative events, and spend additional money on this.
Maybe we won't need it.
But, for example, the purchase of ERP is almost 100% required.
And so, if we talk about the criteria for the resource capacity,
then the most likely resources that will be required
to make changes will be the main criteria.
For example, in our case, it is the purchase of ERP,
it is the maintenance of ERP, and it is the choice of ERP system
for our procurement department.
Therefore, these resources, financial and temporary,
will be used to assess the resource capacity
and change of this process.
Therefore, when we fill in the corresponding table,
we can find the form of this table on the corresponding slide of the questionnaire,
analysis of the resource capacity index and change of the process.
Accordingly, we write the criteria for the first financial costs for ERP,
the criteria for the second temporary costs for ERP,
the criteria for the third temporary costs for the psychologist's search,
and so on, and so on, and so on.
And then we write the points.
If the costs are very significant, we put a five.
If the costs for the psychologist's search are small,
then we put a one, and so on.
So, we put it opposite to each process that we analyze.
And in the end, when we put all the points on all the criteria,
divide by the number of criteria, we get the resource capacity index,
again from one to five.
And the weight of the criteria.
Again, multiply the point assigned to this criterion by its weight,
0.1, 0.2, 0.7.
This will give additional complexity, but additional accuracy.
This is a subtype of this method.
An example of calculating the resource capacity index taking into account the weight
can also be found on the corresponding slide.
So, we have evaluated the importance of processes, their complexity,
and the resource capacity.
What should we do next?
We can develop a business process arrangement matrix
when we put the complexity index horizontally,
and the importance index vertically.
And the more important the process is,
the more complex it is.
So, we will optimize these processes first.
Those that are medium-important and medium-complex
are number two in the optimization queue.
Those that are low-important and low-complex are number three.
We should not deal with them yet, because they are not primary.
Nevertheless, I would like to note that
business processes that are now the most important and the most complex
become less important and less complex after optimization.
This means that the process of business optimization is not a project,
but a process. It happens constantly.
We should not optimize and forget about it for 5-10 years.
No, it should happen constantly and in a mandatory order.
You can also choose business processes
from the top 5 or 10 for optimization
and use a special table.
For example, you write all the business processes that you have assessed.
You write the importance index of a particular business process.
You write the complexity index and the possibility index of making changes.
I want to note that the possibility index of making changes
is directly opposite to the resource capacity index that we have calculated.
The 6th one is your resource capacity index.
Now we add the importance, complexity and possibility of making changes
to each process.
The larger the sum that we get in the end,
the more important this process is for optimization.
Usually, about 10 processes,
no more than that, are taken for optimization.
It is impossible to optimize all of them at once.
It is because they are connected to each other.
It means that if you change one business process,
you change another one, and so on.
If you change 10 processes in parallel,
you have a mutual influence of business processes.
You cannot monitor all the changes
and, as a result, you optimize something in one process
and you make something worse in another one.
Therefore, it is necessary to take into account the interaction of business processes with each other
and to choose no more than 3-4 processes for optimization.
3-4 processes are what can be monitored
in terms of mutual influence and influence of other processes on them.
You will have time to optimize all your processes.
You will not have to hurry and take everything at once.
You will have time to optimize them in a qualitative way.
For example, we had a client, a trading organization,
which after diagnosing business processes,
evaluating their importance, problem-solving and capacity resources,
got a list of top 10 business processes
out of 21 business processes of the highest level.
Of course, there were the main business processes,
and she decided that she needed to optimize everything immediately,
urgently, quickly, within half a year.
We tried to convince her that this was impossible to do
simply because the processes influenced each other.
After changing something in the process of buying,
they automatically had to change something in the process of IT,
and after changing something in the process of accounting,
they had to change something in the process of accounting
and outsourcing.
In general, marketing then influenced the purchase,
sales, and so on.
At the same time, all 10 processes could not be changed.
Therefore, we persuaded the client to stay on 3 main business processes.
The rest of them should be left for later.
That's why the final step, when you have analyzed all 3 parameters,
and highlighted the top 10 most important,
problem-solving and less resource-intensive business processes,
is to make a final table,
where you will find business processes
chosen for initial optimization,
specific steps and actions,
For example, for this trading organization,
we made a similar table,
and there were business processes in the purchase plan,
i.e. the implementation of EBC accounting,
the implementation of a new automated order system,
the implementation of new fields in relation to suppliers,
and so on.
In the case of the sales process,
additional control for the clients was automatically introduced,
i.e. they did not have a CRM system.
It was necessary to implement a CRM system,
to work out a plan of events and seminars for their clients,
to re-examine the value-added policy, and so on.
Thus, we made a specific table,
and we wrote down the specific events,
and the time needed to be implemented.
Again, the time should not be specified,
as it is necessary to specify half a year,
or a year, or the next year,
or the next quarter, and so on.
It is necessary to estimate the plan of events,
and to tie the information of all processes to each other.
Then it will allow you to manage 3-4 processes at the same time.
Now let's move on to the next section.
If we are going to manage our business processes,
we will inevitably need criteria to determine
whether we achieve our goals in optimizing processes or not.
To understand this, we need the key indicators of business process effectiveness,
or KPI.
KPI is a way of controlling business processes,
a way of assessing its effectiveness.
If we classify KPI,
we can break it down by time.
For example, it can be the final and operational indicators.
If we take the business process of sales,
the final indicator will be the volume of sales per year,
and the operational one will be the volume of sales per quarter.
If we talk about the classification of KPI indicators,
we can classify them as aggregate or detailed.
Aggregate is the total satisfaction of the consumer,
and detailed is the volume of revenue.
The reason for the KPI is related to the time of the business process.
It is very important to know the type of indicators.
It is important not only to be able to measure the final indicator,
but also to track its performance.
To track the KPI,
we need both the operational and the KPI.
For example, we have a business process of sales.
The KPI will be the volume of sales per year.
The more the manager communicates with the clients,
the higher the probability that he will sell more.
These KPI will help you to signal in advance
that there is a problem in the implementation of the business process.
Everything is not going according to plan,
there may be a failure.
To avoid failure, it is easier to track in advance
and use some adjustments.
The KPI is divided into priority and regular.
If the business process is prioritized,
then the time of the process will be prioritized.
But we should not forget
that all indicators should be balanced.
If you reduce the time of the process
in order not to lose quality
and not to increase the cost of the business process,
you should add certain indicators.
For example, the quality indicator and the cost of the business process.
These are the usual indicators.
Now they have no problems.
Now everything is OK with the cost and quality.
But in the future, when you start to reduce the time of the business process,
you will sacrifice the quality to reduce the time.
Then the quality will become the priority KPI.
The level of management of the KPI is divided into the upper and lower levels.
The explanation is unnecessary.
The upper level is used for the business process,
and the lower level is used for the lower level.
If we talk about aggregated KPI,
I want to note the following.
There are indicators that are very difficult to measure.
For example, the satisfaction of customers.
How to measure it?
You can't go to a client with a questionnaire and ask him to say OK or not OK.
In fact, the satisfaction of the consumer,
the satisfaction of your clients,
and the satisfaction of the customer itself.
The number of complaints from the clients
compared to the previous period.
The number of requests for one client compared to the previous period.
The number of client requests.
The satisfaction of the client,
the expert assessment of the client.
The number of requests for one client compared to the previous period.
You can measure each such indicator clearly.
Except for the expert assessment, of course.
When you measure it all in detail,
you can bring each indicator to the same points,
assign it a weight, for example, the volume of revenue is very important for you,
the expert assessment of the buyer is not so important for you,
you assign a weight, points,
and in the end you get an aggregate indicator of satisfaction,
which consists of four indicators.
As a result, you can't say that it's all just an expert assessment,
you have a clear indicator that you can rely on in the future.
If I have already talked about clear and accurate indicators,
let's see what kinds of indicators exist in general.
It can be absolute numbers, for example, the number of calls.
It can be the ratio of sales volume this year to the previous year.
It can be indexes.
It can be percentages, ratings, anything.
It can be points, it can be just some description,
that is, good, bad, not very good, like it, don't like it.
It can be a qualitative description,
like I just said.
It all depends on what kind of indicator it is,
who, let's say, and what is analyzed,
and what goal you want to achieve.
For example, if you evaluate the accuracy of your device,
then, of course, accurate ratings will suit you.
If you evaluate the satisfaction of customers,
then you will find discrete descriptive indicators.
For example, it will be convenient for the customer to write whether he is satisfied or not,
agree or disagree, or according to some score system,
for example, from minus 3 to plus 3, or from minus 5 to plus 5,
put a specific point of satisfaction for your products.
It is very important to include a minus scale,
because if you include a scale from 0 to plus,
then your customer is strongly dissatisfied with something in your product.
Therefore, you need to include a minus, and in the same proportion as a plus.
That is, if there is a plus 5 points, then there should be a minus 5 points,
and only then you can track the bright dissatisfaction of your customer.
As an example of indicators,
in addition to what I have already mentioned,
you can name delivery time, development time,
cycle duration, and so on.
There are many indicators, there are no typical ones,
they must be developed, and they must be developed,
including the owners of the processes, all participants and customers, suppliers of each process.
Let's consider some basic indicators of business processes,
so that there is some structure,
how to approach the development of indicators of KPI and business processes.
There is a business process resultivity,
that is, you evaluate the result of the process,
its quantity, its characteristics,
the satisfaction of your client,
that is, you evaluate the outcome of the process.
The cost of the business process, you evaluate the costs that your company carries
when performing this business process.
The quality of the business process is the most difficult indicator,
because it is always unique for each process,
there is no single recipe for evaluating the quality of the business process.
These are indicators that will help you develop KPI for absolutely any process.
Additionally, you can also include such an indicator as fragmentation,
for example, or the number of business processes.
These are not necessary indicators,
because they are not necessary to improve your knowledge about the business process.
But you should not consider them as primary indicators,
because they are additional, not the most important.
You need to rely on them, but you should not be guided by them.
If I said what is fragmentation,
what is it?
It is an indicator that compares functional transitions,
transitions from one function to another function within one business process,
and organizational breaks.
You can see the example on the slide of the degree of organizational fragmentation of processes.
We compare functional transitions and organizational breaks.
The more functional transitions and organizational breaks,
the more fragmentation.
You can ask, what is bad?
All the work in the company is bad.
Therefore, it is an additional indicator,
in addition to all the main indicators that I listed.
Result, time, cost and quality.
This will help you understand the necessary fragmentation of business processes.
When you have identified the problems with the main indicators,
refer to the fragmentation.
The second indicator is the additional cost of business processes.
Maybe there are additional costs, additional time.
Of course, if there is additional time,
there is an additional cost of business processes.
And sometimes it is completely unreasonable.
If we talk about the number of business processes,
it means that, imagine a company.
The company is engaged in the field of trade.
It supplies components to windows, doors, furniture.
It happens most often,
at least it happened so,
that the buyer gets one part of the windows,
then brings the windows,
then brings all the necessary documentation.
This is the first time, and more.
At first, we did not pay much attention to this.
And then, when consultants were invited,
it was decided that this indicator only indicates that the process is not optimal.
It is quite possible to do everything at once.
All the documentation, all the windows, all the frames,
and all together.
The number of exits indicates that any client strives for the principle of one window.
He came and got everything at once.
He does not need to go for this, then for this, then for this, then for this.
Of course, this is not always possible,
so I repeat that the indicator is additional.
How will we choose KPI for our business processes?
After all, you can make a huge list of KPI for any process.
How will you navigate in the future?
First, let's remember our strategy.
Let's remember the strategic accounting map of the company,
and your department.
This is what you need to focus on.
The most important and key problems described in the strategy,
the most important strategic goals,
and the most important indicators to achieve the strategic goals outlined in the company.
Next.
We had one client who decided to introduce such a KPI
as a lost benefit of the company.
The indicator is good.
It was listed in the business process map,
but it was not known how to measure it.
There is an indicator, but there is no measurement method.
It is better not to introduce such indicators,
because you will not be able to measure them,
and they will not be useful to you.
Yes, it is a great indicator, but if there is no method,
postpone it until the method appears.
When we talk about KPI, it should be available.
For example, the ratio of your business process time,
for example, the purchase time of your business process from competitors.
It is a great indicator, but why not use it?
Where do you take this time from your competitors?
If you do not have the appropriate channels, probably not.
Therefore, no matter how great the KPI is,
you should not have such a KPI.
You should not have such a KPI,
which will include a lot of additional indicators,
and as a result, you will get confused
what to multiply and what to divide.
As a result, your KPI will be considered
with a large number of errors.
Therefore, do not complicate the calculation of the KPI.
You should be sure that the owner of the business process
can influence this KPI.
For example, one client introduced a KPI
called increasing the financial literacy
of managers who worked with clients,
that is, sellers.
All this is great, but in the sales department
the owner of the business process
did not do this.
And no one knew what documents to take from clients,
where to carry them in terms of primary documentation,
what terms, what information to provide to the accounting department.
Therefore, it was impossible to introduce such a KPI
to this business process.
The next point is the limited number of KPIs.
It is imperative to monitor the number of KPIs
for one process.
If you have 100 KPIs for each process,
then the process of accounting for business processes
will take so much time
that it will not be paid off by any business process optimization.
Usually, each process has no more than 5-7 KPIs.
And balance is what I have already said.
If you introduce KPIs for minimizing time,
then you must balance it with quality and value.
In other words, there should not be any side-effects.
You should be sure that the process is improving
not due to the deterioration of some other indicators,
but due to the fact that the process is improving.
For example, we had one client.
She was engaged in audio-video production.
And there was such a wonderful example.
They wanted to reduce costs on glass storage,
so they decided to deliver goods at night.
So that the cars would not be stuck.
But the staff refused to go out at night
for obvious reasons.
So they had to pay additional costs.
As a result, they reduced the cost of glass storage,
but at the same time they increased the costs for the staff.
As a result, the effect was not even zero,
but negative.
So, the KPIs should be balanced.
What criteria do you use to choose the indicators
you will focus on?
It's very simple.
You evaluate the importance of a given KPI
in accordance with the strategy of the company
and the accounting cards of the company and your department.
Then you can evaluate the problem of this KPI.
You can see how much this KPI is now
and how much you would like it to be.
For this, you should look at the methodology
of evaluating the problem of the business process.
The most problematic and important KPIs
should remain in the arsenal for managing a specific process.
Therefore, when you have selected the best KPIs,
you can freely, in addition to the regulations,
write a page where the KPI indicator card
will be included.
This means that you write in each process
what KPIs will allow you to measure the efficiency
of the business process.
In each process, you will write
how it is calculated,
who is responsible for collecting this information,
in what units it is measured,
what department is responsible for calculating the indicator,
what is the value of the indicator,
what is the plan, where the information is collected,
and so on.
You can see the indicator card on the corresponding slide.
Therefore, if we talk about indicators,
then in the regulations of each process they must be written.
And you must have a single dictionary,
where all the KPIs used must be listed
and this information must be provided.
This can be provided
if it is some kind of information carrier,
for example, a special program for accounting for KPIs.
It can be a certain DERIO-KPI,
that is, KPIs of the upper level,
which are typed under the KPI and reach the lowest level.
And then, when you click on a specific KPI,
it will be easier to work with them.
Now we can move on to the next section,
which is called the Regulating Documents of the Business Process.
As I said, it is impossible to live without the Regulations.
Although few people like them,
but they are useful,
they are stored on shelves,
no one knows about them and no one uses them.
This situation can be fixed.
When we went through the description of the business process,
we worked on moving forward to the goal,
to the benchmark for each business process.
One day we will definitely achieve satisfactory results
for each process.
And then we can regulate this process.
Why regulate business processes?
Most often, people we meet
are new employees.
Or there is a controversial point,
or it is necessary to change the current course of the business process.
For these purposes, the Regulation is needed.
It fixes a certain agreement
between employees and companies
on who behaves.
This agreement is the tool
of the influence of the boss on his subordinates.
And what is written in the Regulation,
the employee must do.
If he does not do this,
he does not comply with the agreement,
and some punitive measures may be applied for this.
And he will not be able to comply with the Regulation.
The Regulation will allow you to make your company transparent.
It will be clear who is responsible for what,
what functions are responsible.
Regulations can be developed not only for specific employees,
as is often the case.
They are developed at the corporate level,
then at the department level,
and finally at the employees' level.
Therefore, Regulations are an integral part of the management process.
What are Regulations?
I think that each of you has a certain Regulation.
Most often, 90% of cases,
you have a structural Regulation.
It is a kind of a system of regulations
that is defined by the department,
by the employees, by the departments,
by the departments,
by the departments.
Regulations are a kind of a system of rules
that allow everybody to understand
what processes are carried out in the company,
on what conditions and on what rules they should be carried out.
If a person comes to your company,
he can freely familiarize himself with the business processes
and understand the scheme of how it will all happen
and for what purpose it will happen,
because the result will be clear.
And then he will receive a specific instruction
on what he will do.
This will be the structure of regulations.
Thus, the process regulation allows you to understand
the structure of the company.
If we look at the structure of regulations in any company,
let's say, we are talking about the structure of regulations,
then the position in the organization is the highest level document.
Then the position in the department,
then in the department, and then the official instruction.
If we move on to the process system of management,
we will see that there are three main structures for the process system of regulation.
The first one is the position on the business processes of the highest level.
Then the position on each business process,
then the position on the operation, and so on.
Thus, the structure of regulations will allow us to understand
the role of a person in an organization or department,
and the process one will help us understand the role of this action,
the overall process of the organization.
Let's say, we have a position on the process of the highest level.
Here are described the inputs and outputs of the process,
the responsible ones,
and from which procedures this process consists,
if we speak roughly.
Then we talk about each procedure that is included in this business process.
And only then we talk about specific small operations.
If we talk about the mistakes that are most often made by those who start the business processes regulation.
Number one.
The unreadability of documents.
They are written in such a way that you don't want to do anything but cry when you look at them.
You can only execute them from under the stick.
Therefore, the document must be readable.
Include schemes of business processes, normal interval,
responsibilities, additional drawings.
It must be readable.
The more we include in this document, the better.
It must be a clear structure and maximum usefulness for the user of this instruction or other regulations.
The contradiction.
Very often, when we get acquainted with the documentation of a specific client,
we see that the same function is being executed in different departments by completely different performers.
And when we come to a specific performer and ask him,
he usually answers,
I don't know where you got this instruction from, it's from the forgotten times.
Therefore, the instructions, all regulations must be mutually exclusive.
If your business process is described in a certain way,
and it is written that the responsibility for such a business process is such and such,
then, accordingly, in the position of the department,
it must be repeated that it is responsible for the business process that is being executed.
The difference in the structure of the business process is not indicated in the process regulations,
but in the fact that the structure of the business process is completely different.
There must be a single system.
Next, the level of difference.
It is imperative to observe this hierarchy.
If we are talking about structural regulations,
then it is the position of the department, then departments, groups and the official instruction.
Then we will talk about processes, then about specific operations.
No other way.
Next, if you have agreed to the regulations,
if you have signed it with employees, with the department, and so on,
you must know who will regulate the implementation of this regulation of your company.
This is not what you wrote and put on the shelf,
otherwise it will be the same fate as in the current documentation.
You will have to ask them regularly to implement this specific regulation.
And for this control, you will need the same KPI that you have developed in the previous step.
As a result, the documents must be used and used as effectively as possible.
In other words, we have developed the situation as it should be in terms of business processes
and in terms of the compliance of processes and structures.
That is, we have ideally located the responsible and the executors,
then we have created the process structure and the structural regulation,
and then we start to implement it all and have a normal working organization at the output.
If we list the main requirements for regulation,
then it is imperative to set the level of regulation,
again, to clearly specify the name of each regulation,
for example, the status of the structure, the status of the department,
the status of the department, the status of the official instruction.
Then it is imperative to define the typical structure of each document.
It should not be that in one document we start from point 1,
this is the role of this department, for example,
or this unit of some other level in the general structure of the organization,
then the list of names of those who enter there,
then the general functions, then some rights and duties,
then something else.
It should be a single list, a single structure for all absolute regulations,
no matter if it is structural or procedural.
For structural, one regulation is a supplement, for procedural, another.
Further, a single style of regulation, that is, both structural and procedural regulations,
they all should be written in a single style,
not too sophisticated, but nevertheless quite simple to perceive in a formal style.
And then the regulation should occur exclusively in accordance with the descriptions of business processes.
Again, we remember that the processes are the primary,
and the structure is later, therefore, first a procedural regulation is created,
and only then a structural one.
Let's look at an example of what the business process situation looks like.
I will show you what to do in the following slide.
Let's go through the points.
First, the general situation.
The goal, why this regulation is needed, the application area, the definition term.
The definition term must be mandatory,
because it is necessary for everyone to understand what is being discussed and speak the same language.
Then there should be a description of the business process.
The goal, all the work that is included in the business process, all the participants,
the sequence of the work, and here, by the way, the scheme of the business process will be very relevant.
The dates of the events that initiate this process,
the dates of the events that end the business process,
that is, what time they occur, how often,
maybe once a month, once every six months, if there is such a thing.
The duration of work, approximate, other characteristics.
Next, the KPI.
The KPI is exactly those that we talked about.
With links you can make a proposal for a specific indicator map of each.
Next, the responsibility for the implementation of the regulations.
It is necessary to write who is responsible for the business process.
It does not matter whether it is a business process,
or an operation, or a business process of the upper level, or a structural regulation.
The structures are approximately the same.
Next, the order of making changes in the business process.
How to change the business process.
How often, who is responsible for this.
This must also be, because the situation, like any regulation, must be reviewed.
And the form of the documents.
That is, in what form the owner of this business process will be reported on its work, its effectiveness.
You can also make a business process scheme in the application.
For example, you can make a scheme for the implementation of the business process.
You can make a scheme for the implementation of the business process.
You can also make a business process scheme in the application.
If you do not want to make them directly in the body of the regulation.
It is at your discretion.
Accordingly, in this way, in this way, in this way,
absolutely any regulation is made.
Whether it is a business process of the upper level,
just a business process, or some kind of operation.
The main thing is in a single way.
Business process.
And now the most important part.
For those who want to track the business process and its cost.
I am sure that in any company there is a accounting, a management accounting.
In one way or another.
Now, with the transition to the process management system of companies,
the interest in the ABC analysis is growing.
Activity-based costing.
That is, the operating system of accounting for the company's costs.
This means that all the costs of the company,
no matter how constant or variable,
are attracted to each specific process.
And are taken into account in each specific process.
And you can say boldly how much each process costs.
It does not matter whether it is a taxable expense or not.
The main thing is that you can track the dynamics of each process,
its cost and calculate it.
Yes, of course, such a system of operating accounting for costs is more difficult than usual.
But there is nothing impossible.
How does it happen?
And what advantages does it give?
What advantages?
Probably, this is already clear.
Now, each process will be evaluated from the point of view of all types of costs that only exist in the company.
Accordingly, you can easily see how much the process costs,
how much each operation that is included in it costs,
what type of costs are these costs.
For example, it is costs for staff, costs for equipment, costs for the office,
or costs for software,
or costs for, excuse me, the salary of the manager,
which you have to control your actions because you can't handle it.
It is the operating system of accounting for costs that will allow your company to control the costs of each process.
How to create it?
First, you need to describe the business process.
This is clear.
Then you need to create a system of structure of costs for your company.
Describe all types of costs of the company that you have.
Assign them units and measurements, for example, grams, rubles, dollars, hours, minutes, etc.
It all depends on the type of resource.
Next, create a structure with centers of costs, assign each center of costs in the monetary expression.
Next, create a process diagram, if you haven't created it yet,
and calculate the time of each function.
Next, check.
Next, create a corresponding table with analytics.
And then create a diagram of the business process.
Let's take an example of how it happens.
Let's say we have a trading company that sells tea, furniture, and clothes.
It's the same Evrika.
What types of costs does it have?
We won't consider all types of costs.
Let's take, for example, costs for staff.
This is the first one.
Costs for rent.
This is the second one.
Of course, there are costs for software, for buying materials, etc.
Let's deal with these two types of costs.
Costs for staff and costs for rent.
How will these costs be measured?
It's clear that costs for staff will be measured in hours.
How many hours does a particular employee spend on the execution of a particular process?
Costs for rent.
How many square meters is needed to carry out this business process?
Let's take a business process as an example.
Let's say, our favorite one, the purchase of a product.
Let's break it down into sub-processes.
Let's say, the purchase of a product consists of the following sub-processes.
This is the application to the supplier,
consolidation of all applications into a single application,
then, number three, is the submission of the application to the supplier,
number four, is the work with the advertising,
if the supplier has submitted the application or not,
and number five, is the selection of suppliers,
the work with the suppliers, in other words, monitoring of the supplier's market.
Let's take a consolidation of applications as an example.
We'll consider its cost.
Similarly, we'll evaluate the cost of all other sub-processes,
then, we'll add up all the costs of sub-processes
to get the cost of the whole business process of the purchase.
Then, we'll calculate the cost of business processes of sales and production.
Then, we'll add all this up and get the cost of the business process of trade,
for example, with a particular product.
We'll calculate the cost of any business process in our trading company.
Of course, there are different payment systems.
For example, we can go from the bottom up, as we are doing now.
We go from operations, from small sub-processes to business processes of the upper level.
We can go the other way around.
We can go from the top to the bottom.
First, we'll determine the cost of business processes of the upper level,
and then go down.
As practice shows, the second method is less clear, less detailed, less accurate.
Because it is very easy to estimate the costs of business processes of the upper level,
until you understand their structure, their composition, all operations that are included in them.
So, we'll go from the bottom up.
We'll see how the cost of a particular sub-process of consolidation of applications is evaluated.
Then, we'll see how the cost of a business process of procurement is calculated, and so on.
So, we have determined that we have specific resources,
while we have limited ourselves only to the costs of personnel and rent.
We have determined that we will now calculate the specific cost of a specific sub-process of consolidation of applications.
If we refer to the specific scheme of calculation of costs for the execution of a process,
or rather a sub-process of consolidation of applications,
then, accordingly, we can imagine the following structure.
For simplicity, let's take just a couple of operations that are included in it.
This is the submission of applications to departments, this is the processing of applications, and then consolidation.
How does the mechanism of calculating the cost of this sub-process work?
We remember that we agreed to consider only the costs of personnel and rent.
So, let's look at the costs of personnel.
Here, the department spends about three hours in total to prepare applications for the procurement of materials.
Their hour costs about 180 rubles.
The same applies to the processing of applications.
This is one hour for the manager to process the applications.
Based on the cost of the procurement, we consider that 180 rubles is equivalent to one hour of work.
The same applies to consolidation.
Now, let's look at the cost of rental.
Let's say that our managers who form applications for the procurement of materials
are located in a room about 10 square meters.
We know that they spend about three hours to do all this.
We know how much a year's rent costs.
Accordingly, we can calculate how much it costs per hour.
And, accordingly, we can know that every manager sitting in a 10 square meter office spends three hours.
We know how much a rent costs per hour.
We can calculate the costs for the place, for the room.
We add this and this and get the sum for this operation.
The same thing happens here, the same thing happens here.
As a result, our consolidation costs 6,000 rubles.
This is already something, because now we can know that this operation is not just some kind of amorphous,
but consists of quite certain costs.
And we can track why the cost of this operation has increased, for example, by the end of the year,
if someone suddenly began to perform their functions longer, or someone moved to a larger office.
In any case, everything here is tied to the time that employees spend on the business process.
This means that the main criterion for the cost of the business process is the time that is spent on its implementation.
When we know how much such a process costs,
we can easily calculate the cost of other processes in the same way,
add up the cost of the business process and purchase,
the cost of production, the cost of sales, and we can calculate the cost of the business process,
trade, some products.
Then calculate the business process, financial accounting, strategic management,
all the processes of the company at the top level.
We add up everything and get the sum of costs per company.
Then the manager can easily drill the processes to the lowest level.
For example, we have a business process of the highest level of purchase.
Suddenly, at the end of the year, its cost has increased sharply, for example, by 20%.
What is the reason?
The head of the purchase department reveals the cost of the processes in this business process.
As a result, the consolidation of applications has increased by 30%.
Why?
For example, one of the managers began to process applications much slower.
What is the reason?
For example, someone quit, a newbie came and has not yet mastered.
It is clear that such a temporary and emergency reason should not be taken.
The same applies to absolutely any process.
Only here, in addition to the cost of rent and salary,
other costs will be added, such as materials, IT, and so on.
Such a process account allows the company to know how much each process, each operation costs
and what should be paid attention to reduce this cost.
Accordingly, knowing all the costs of the processes,
the head of the corporation can easily track the cause of the cost increase
up to each small operation.
It is very convenient and fast.
Now, considering the process approach we have discussed today,
a few words about how the project on building a process management system in the company should be built.
First, everything starts with the organization of work.
Without a specific plan of events, without a team of participants,
determined by the company, it is impossible to create any project,
including a project on building a process management system in the company.
Then, when the structure of the participants is determined,
the detailed plan of the project,
it is now possible to distribute the roles, who will be responsible for what,
and set the approximate deadlines, what deadlines will be fulfilled.
Now, when the organization of work in the project is clear,
it is possible to start describing the business processes.
At the first stage, you attract external consultants,
they must also be taken into account as part of the project participants.
And, of course, the organization of work must be approved by them too.
When we move on to point 2, the description of the business processes in the company,
we already know how it is done.
First, the company strategy must be known,
then the description of the business processes of the upper level,
then the description of the business processes of the lower level,
and then, if necessary, the description of the business processes of the higher level.
Next, the key indicators of the efficiency of the business processes are developed.
We remember that for this purpose,
it is necessary to first analyze the business processes
by the criteria of importance, problem-solving, and the possibility of making changes.
By three criteria.
First, we must select the most basic ones,
develop a plan of actions to improve them,
and then, for all processes, including those that are the number one candidate for optimization,
develop a KPI.
We must remember that we must also develop a map of indicators to use it correctly.
Next, when it is developed, we move on to regulation.
I must say right away that before regulation,
we must already complete a certain optimization of the most critical business processes.
Otherwise, how can we regulate a process that is still far from optimal?
This is an unnecessary waste of time.
We have already described it.
We do not need a full-fledged regulation on it.
Therefore, we optimized the most critical main processes.
Next, we wrote process regulations for them and for all the others.
First, the process regulations, starting with the business processes of the upper level,
then to the business processes regulations,
and then to the regulations of various operations, and so on.
Then we move on to the composition of structural regulations,
from the organizational structure to the position of the unit,
and then to the lowest level, that is, to the official instructions of specific people.
And finally, the very last thing.
When we have done all this, we must be sure that this is not a one-time project,
but a process, a process of business processes management.
In order to constantly optimize and manage business processes,
you need to do a couple of things.
First, you need to develop, describe, regulate the business processes,
business processes management.
That is, it is also necessary to create it, regulate it,
and be sure to assign responsible participants, and so on.
Be sure to have a structure of documentation, a form of accountability.
Then this regulation must be implemented,
that is, made available to everyone,
and necessarily to the performers.
And then, it is necessary to train specialists who will be involved in the process management system
to constantly maintain a living state.
It is necessary to constantly upgrade the description of business processes.
It is necessary to associate with the subdivisions the subject of changing the description of processes,
changing the regulations, changing the key indicators of efficiency, and so on.
Only with the fifth point, that is, the implementation of the process management system
and the creation of a business process management system,
it will be possible to say that your organization,
process management system, has been built and will live for many years.
The video course on operational management is over.
Today we have introduced you to the process management system,
how to allocate business processes, how to describe them,
how to optimize and analyze them,
how to regulate business processes,
how to create business process QPI,
and so on.
And now, I would like to invite you to watch the video
on how to optimize and analyze, how to regulate business processes,
how to create business process QPI,
how to assess the cost of business processes,
and most importantly, how to implement the project on the implementation of the process management system.
With this, let me say goodbye.
I wish you all the best and success in the implementation of the process management system of your company.